markdowns/higherOrder.md, before:

We now come back to higher order functions. I will present `map`, `filter` and `reduce`. Like `sorted`, these functions take a function and an iterator as parameters. 

When we work with collections, two very common programming patterns emerge: 
 1. *iterating a collection to build another collection.* In this case, at each iteration, we want to apply some transformation or some test to the current item and append the result to the new collection. `map`, `filter` and `sorted` fall into this category.
 2. *iterating a collection and accumulating intermediate results to build a single value.* `any`, `all`, `min`, `max` and `sum` fall into this category. In this section we will study `reduce` which is a generalized version of these 5 functions. As an exercise, you will use `reduce` to write your own version of these functions.  
 
# Converting the items of a collection with `map`.

`map` creates a new collection by applying a function to each item of the source collection. To get the 10 first even numbers, with `map` you can write: `evens = map(lambda n: n*2, range(10))`.

`map` returns an iterator. The good point is that it saves memory. The bad point is that it can be iterated only once. If you need to iterate the collection several times, or access items by index, then create a list out of the iterator: `evens = list(map(lambda n: n*2, range(20)))`.

Most of the time, you can use a generator expression instead of a call to `map`. Which one to use is up to your preferences. If you have to define a function inline using `lambda`, then I think a generator expression will be a bit more clearer than a call to `map`. However, if the mapping function already exists then I prefer a call to `map`. Compare for yourself:

```python
# we reuse the class BonusChest of the introduction
wealthMap = sum(map(BonusChest.getNumCoins, myChests))
wealthGen = sum(chest.getNumCoins() for chest in myChests)
```

# Filtering collections with `filter`

 `filter` applies a function to each item of the source collection and create a new one by keeping the items for which this function returns true.

Again, to get the 10 first even numbers, with `map` you can write: `evens = filter(lambda n: n%2==0, range(20))`.

Like `map`, most of the time you can replace a call to `filter` by a generator expression: `evens = (n for n in range(20) if n%2 == 0)`.  

# Aggregating a collections to a single value with `reduce`

In this section we will study `reduce`, and we will also try learn some functional thinking: how can we convert imperative code to functional code ? We will rely on the factorial function as our supporting example.

## From an imperative factorial to a functional one

In an imperative manner, you would compute factorial(10) in the following way: 
```python
def factorial(n):
    fact = 1
    for currentValue in range(1,n):
        fact = fact*currentValue
    return fact
fact10 = factorial(10) 
```

So, how do we rewrite this function in a functional style ? We saw that functional programming relies on collections. Here Python is easy with us, since the for loop goes through an iterator. For `factorial`, the handled collection is `range(1,n)`, which represent all the numbers we want to multiply. Next, we see that the imperative factorial function returns a single value, so we can probably implement it with our second programming pattern: it processes a collection and returns a single value. Now, we see that the `fact` variable is used as an accumulator: at each iteration it is multiplied by the current item. This clearly corresponds to our second kind programming pattern, so we should be able to replace the body of `factorial` by a call to `reduce`.  

`reduce` takes 3 arguments: 
 1. an accumulating function which takes 2 arguments : (1) the current accumulated value; (2) the current item. It return the final accumulated value.
 1. an iterator which contains the values to be accumulated;
 1. an initial value for the accumulated value.
`reduce` returns the final accumulated value.   

For factorial, the accumulating function is the multiplication. Thus, we have our first argument and can write `reduce(mult,?,?)`. We suppose here that we have a `mult` function at hand. We found that the accumulated collection is `range(1,n)`, so we can fill in the second argument:  `reduce(mult,range(1,n),?)`. We just need the start value to complete our call. It's of course 1 for factorial, but you can also find it by searching the accumulator variable in the imperative version and lookup its initial value. The complete call is: `reduce(mult,range(1,n),1)`.

Here is the full function factorial function:
```python
from functools import reduce
from operator import mult

def factorial(n):
	return reduce(mult,range(1,n),1)
    
fact10 = factorial(10) 
```

Let's now analyse the two import calls that we used in the functional factorial. Starting from Python 3, you must import `reduce` from the `functools` module. In Python 2, reduce was a built-in function and was always available. Even if `reduce` is not a built-in function per-se, we cannot skip it ; we would loose a whole part of the functional programming fun. `reduces` is really the buddy of `map` and `filter`. See for example the [MapReduce](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MapReduce) of Google.

Next, we import the `mult` function from the `operator` module. This module contains many utility functions which are particularly useful with higher order functions. They spare you from writing small lambda functions for common operations, such as arithmetic operations, boolean operations, attribute access...   

## Some subjective functional programming advocacy

Of course you do not need to always write the imperative version and convert it to the functional version. However, taking a piece of existing code and trying to make it functional is a good exercise. You can apply the same method we used for factorial: (1) identify the collection ; (2) does the code rely on one of our two the functional patterns ? ; (3) which function will you use ? After some time and with practice, you will start to think functionally and skip the imperative version. 

A benefit of functional programming is that it simplifies the reading of programs. When reading from left to right, you read first the outer function, which gives the general scope of the operation. Arguments gives you the details. Let's see how this applies to a our `reduce` call. When you see `reduce`, you know that we will process an iterator and generate a value. This is our second functional pattern. Then, you read the accumulating operation, `mult` in our example. So, at this point, we know that we will perform a sequence of multiplication and return the final value. The next argument tells us what is the sequence of multiplied numbers. The final argument tells from where we start.

If you compare the two versions of factorial, you will see that `reduce:
 1. gives us a more compact code, without sacrifying readability;
 1. is less error prone, because it does not rely on an intermediate variable that you have to declare, initialize and maintain in the for loop. 

## Please, stay in readable code territory

`reduce` really shines if you can avoid defining a `lambda`. Without the `operator` module we would write:
```python
from functools import reduce

def factorial(n):
    return reduce(lambda accValue,curItem:accValue*curItem,range(1,n),1)
``` 
This version is arguably not very readable and should be avoided. In that case, I would advise to skip the `lambda` function and to define the `mult` function yourself:
```python
from functools import reduce

def factorial(n):
    def mult(a,b): return a*b
    return reduce(mult,range(1,n),1)
``` 

# Hands on session

`reduce` and `map` are so fundamental to functional programming that you cannot avoid coding your own version. So this is your time!

@[Implement your own version of `reduce` and `map`]({"stubs": ["reduceMap.py"], "command": "python3 testReduceMap.py"})

@[Use reduce to implement your own version of any, all and sum]({"stubs": ["reduceUseCase.py"], "command": "python3 testReduceUseCase.py"})

Commit message:

Added an exercise for zip

markdowns/higherOrder.md, after:

We now come back to higher order functions. I will present `map`, `filter` and `reduce`. Like `sorted`, these functions take a function and an iterator as parameters. 

When we work with collections, two very common programming patterns emerge: 
 1. *iterating a collection to build another collection.* In this case, at each iteration, we want to apply some transformation or some test to the current item and append the result to the new collection. `map`, `filter` and `sorted` fall into this category.
 2. *iterating a collection and accumulating intermediate results to build a single value.* `any`, `all`, `min`, `max` and `sum` fall into this category. In this section we will study `reduce` which is a generalized version of these 5 functions. As an exercise, you will use `reduce` to write your own version of these functions.  
 
# Converting the items of a collection with `map`.

`map` creates a new collection by applying a function to each item of the source collection. To get the 10 first even numbers, with `map` you can write: `evens = map(lambda n: n*2, range(10))`.

`map` returns an iterator. The good point is that it saves memory. The bad point is that it can be iterated only once. If you need to iterate the collection several times, or access items by index, then create a list out of the iterator: `evens = list(map(lambda n: n*2, range(20)))`.

Most of the time, you can use a generator expression instead of a call to `map`. Which one to use is up to your preferences. If you have to define a function inline using `lambda`, then I think a generator expression will be a bit more clearer than a call to `map`. However, if the mapping function already exists then I prefer a call to `map`. Compare for yourself:

```python
# we reuse the class BonusChest of the introduction
wealthMap = sum(map(BonusChest.getNumCoins, myChests))
wealthGen = sum(chest.getNumCoins() for chest in myChests)
```

# Filtering collections with `filter`

 `filter` applies a function to each item of the source collection and create a new one by keeping the items for which this function returns true.

Again, to get the 10 first even numbers, with `map` you can write: `evens = filter(lambda n: n%2==0, range(20))`.

Like `map`, most of the time you can replace a call to `filter` by a generator expression: `evens = (n for n in range(20) if n%2 == 0)`.  

# Aggregating a collections to a single value with `reduce`

In this section we will study `reduce`, and we will also try learn some functional thinking: how can we convert imperative code to functional code ? We will rely on the factorial function as our supporting example.

## From an imperative factorial to a functional one

In an imperative manner, you would compute factorial(10) in the following way: 
```python
def factorial(n):
    fact = 1
    for currentValue in range(1,n):
        fact = fact*currentValue
    return fact
fact10 = factorial(10) 
```

So, how do we rewrite this function in a functional style ? We saw that functional programming relies on collections. Here Python is easy with us, since the for loop goes through an iterator. For `factorial`, the handled collection is `range(1,n)`, which represent all the numbers we want to multiply. Next, we see that the imperative factorial function returns a single value, so we can probably implement it with our second programming pattern: it processes a collection and returns a single value. Now, we see that the `fact` variable is used as an accumulator: at each iteration it is multiplied by the current item. This clearly corresponds to our second kind programming pattern, so we should be able to replace the body of `factorial` by a call to `reduce`.  

`reduce` takes 3 arguments: 
 1. an accumulating function which takes 2 arguments : (1) the current accumulated value; (2) the current item. It return the final accumulated value.
 1. an iterator which contains the values to be accumulated;
 1. an initial value for the accumulated value.
`reduce` returns the final accumulated value.   

For factorial, the accumulating function is the multiplication. Thus, we have our first argument and can write `reduce(mult,?,?)`. We suppose here that we have a `mult` function at hand. We found that the accumulated collection is `range(1,n)`, so we can fill in the second argument:  `reduce(mult,range(1,n),?)`. We just need the start value to complete our call. It's of course 1 for factorial, but you can also find it by searching the accumulator variable in the imperative version and lookup its initial value. The complete call is: `reduce(mult,range(1,n),1)`.

Here is the full function factorial function:
```python
from functools import reduce
from operator import mult

def factorial(n):
	return reduce(mult,range(1,n),1)
    
fact10 = factorial(10) 
```

Let's now analyse the two import calls that we used in the functional factorial. Starting from Python 3, you must import `reduce` from the `functools` module. In Python 2, reduce was a built-in function and was always available. Even if `reduce` is not a built-in function per-se, we cannot skip it ; we would loose a whole part of the functional programming fun. `reduces` is really the buddy of `map` and `filter`. See for example the [MapReduce](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MapReduce) of Google.

Next, we import the `mult` function from the `operator` module. This module contains many utility functions which are particularly useful with higher order functions. They spare you from writing small lambda functions for common operations, such as arithmetic operations, boolean operations, attribute access...   

## Some subjective functional programming advocacy

Of course you do not need to always write the imperative version and convert it to the functional version. However, taking a piece of existing code and trying to make it functional is a good exercise. You can apply the same method we used for factorial: (1) identify the collection ; (2) does the code rely on one of our two the functional patterns ? ; (3) which function will you use ? After some time and with practice, you will start to think functionally and skip the imperative version. 

A benefit of functional programming is that it simplifies the reading of programs. When reading from left to right, you read first the outer function, which gives the general scope of the operation. Arguments gives you the details. Let's see how this applies to a our `reduce` call. When you see `reduce`, you know that we will process an iterator and generate a value. This is our second functional pattern. Then, you read the accumulating operation, `mult` in our example. So, at this point, we know that we will perform a sequence of multiplication and return the final value. The next argument tells us what is the sequence of multiplied numbers. The final argument tells from where we start.

If you compare the two versions of factorial, you will see that `reduce:
 1. gives us a more compact code, without sacrifying readability;
 1. is less error prone, because it does not rely on an intermediate variable that you have to declare, initialize and maintain in the for loop. 

## Please, stay in readable code territory

`reduce` really shines if you can avoid defining a `lambda`. Without the `operator` module we would write:
```python
from functools import reduce

def factorial(n):
    return reduce(lambda accValue,curItem:accValue*curItem,range(1,n),1)
``` 
This version is arguably not very readable and should be avoided. In that case, I would advise to skip the `lambda` function and to define the `mult` function yourself:
```python
from functools import reduce

def factorial(n):
    def mult(a,b): return a*b
    return reduce(mult,range(1,n),1)
``` 

# Hands on session

`reduce` and `map` are so fundamental to functional programming that you cannot avoid coding your own version. So this is your time!

@[Implement your own version of reduce and map]({"stubs": ["reduceMap.py"], "command": "python3 testReduceMap.py"})

The next exercise will illustrate how general `reduce` is. You have now to implement `any`, `all`, `sum`, `min` and `max` by calling reduce. For the sake of simplicity, you can consider that `max` and `min` receive a list of int comprised between 0 and 1000.

@[Use reduce to implement your own version of any, all, sum min and max]({"stubs": ["reduceUseCase.py"], "command": "python3 testReduceUseCase.py"})
